Organization id

tpf


Organization name

The Perl Foundation


Organization description

The Perl Foundation is dedicated to the advancement of the Perl programming
language through open discussion, collaboration, design, and code. The Perl
Foundation is a non-profit, 501(c)(3) organization based in Holland, Michigan.

The Perl Foundation coordinates the efforts of numerous grassroots Perl-based
groups, including:

  * International Yet Another Perl Conferences (YAPC)
  * Carries the legal responsibility for Perl 5 and Perl 6
  * perl.org
  * Perl Mongers
  * PerlMonks


Organization home page url

http://perlfoundation.org/


Main organization license

GNU General Public License version 2.0 (GPLv2)


Backup Admin

mdk


What is the URL for your Ideas page?

http://wiki.enlightenedperl.org/gsoc2012/ideas


What is the main IRC channel for your organization?

irc://irc.perl.org/#soc-help


What is the main development mailing list for your organization?

tpf-gsoc-students@googlegroups.com is our main GSoC list, but there are many
different development lists, given the TPF being an umbrella organisation.


Why is your organization applying to participate in Google Summer of Code 2012?
What do you hope to gain by participating?

Each year we have participated in GSoC and GCI has been a extraordinary
experience for both the students and the developers and we plan to repeat this
great success.

Besides getting a fair bit of important work done during the summer, one of our
main focus points will be on getting students to know and interact with the
different parts of our vast community and to do everything we can to encourage
them stick around after the summer, becoming a part of the Perl world as well as
the free software movement in general, just like we believe to have managed
rather well with many of our previous students.


Did your organization participate in past Google Summer of Codes? If so, please
summarize your involvement and the successes and challenges of your
participation.

We participated in several GSoC and and all GCI programs so far. Our track
record for the last few years that I could find data on looks like this:

2011: 6 out of 6 students passed
2010: 3/5
2009: 8/9
2008: 4/4

(we also participated in 2005 and 2006, but I don't have any numbers for those
years)

Out of these, a large number of our passing students have decided to stick
around in the projects they've worked on or have continued to contribute to
different projects within our community. Even one of the students we had to fail
in the finals has gone on to become one of our long term contributors.

We used to struggle somewhat with not getting the work produced by our students
merged into their respective projects in a timely manner, but we were able to
improve this situation considerably in the last rounds. To my knowledge, none of
last year's projects aren't either already shipped as part of an official
release or at least being very close to being shipped in the very near future.

For both my prospective backup admin Mark and myself, it'll be the second year
of acting as an org-admin. Before that, I used to be involved as a mentor for
both the Perl Foundation and XMMS2, as well as a student for XMMS2 in an earlier
program. Many of our mentors have a similarly long experience with GSoC.


If your organization has not previously participated in Google Summer of Code,
have you applied in the past? If so, for what year(s)?

n/a


Does your organization have an application template you would like to see
students use? If so, please provide it now.

http://wiki.enlightenedperl.org/gsoc2011/application_template


What criteria did you use to select your mentors for this year's program? Please
be as specific as possible.

There are many qualities we look for in our mentors, some of which include their
level of involvement in their respective sub-communities, their previous GSoC
and non-GSoC mentoring experience, their expected availability over the course
of the summer, their activity on various communication channels such as IRC and
mailing lists, but also how well they seem to be able to interact with their
prospective student during the student application period.

Given the size of our community, we've not yet had any major problems finding
the right mentor for any project we wanted to accept. In fact, our mentoring
resources are large enough to supply each of our students with at least two
mentors overseeing their work, which we've had a great experience with
previously.

Additionally, we try to make our requirements for mentors as clear as possible
right from the beginning and have written documentation for that available at
https://github.com/rafl/tpf-soc/blob/master/mentors-guidelines


What is your plan for dealing with disappearing students?

We take every precaution we can think of to avoid a situation like that in the
first place. Many of these are described in both our mentor guidelines at
https://github.com/rafl/tpf-soc/blob/master/mentors-guidelines as well as our
student guidelines at
https://github.com/rafl/tpf-soc/blob/master/student-guidelines and include
several ways of encouraging and, in fact, demanding very frequent communication,
always having someone available for the student to speak to (even if there's a
communication breakdown between student and mentors), as well as taking many
measures to ensure we can detect a situation like this as early as possible.

If all else fails, our measure of last resort is to fail the student as early as
possible, cutting both our own and Google's losses as early as we can.


What is your plan for dealing with disappearing mentors?

Similar to the previous two questions, our strategy for this boils down to
stating requirements clearly upfront, demanding frequent communication, always
having at least a third person paying close attention to how things are going,
and attempting to catch possible problems as soon as we can.

Should we run into a situation where both a student's primary and backup mentor
disappears, we'll notice quickly and will act accordingly, such as by finding
another suitable candidate in our big mentor pool or, with regret, abort the
project.


What steps will you take to encourage students to interact with your project's
community before, during and after the program?

TODO


Are you a new organization who has a Googler or other organization to vouch for
you? If so, please list their name(s) here.

Are you an established or larger organization who would like to vouch for a new
organization applying this year? If so, please list their name(s) here.
